Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A. Special language that contains set of instructions that can be used to manipulate data in the computer.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A. JDK is used for developing Java applications and applets.It includes:
an interpreter/loader (java), a compiler (javac) is used to compile Java source code files into
executable Java bytecode classes, debugger is used to debug a code. Disassembler to disassembles class files.
An archiver (jar), a documentation generator (javadoc) and other tools needed in Java development.

What is IDE?
A. IDE means integrated development environment. We use diffent IDE's to write programming languages.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A. Eclipse, Intellij, NetBeans, JGrasp

Explain the entire java life cycle.
A. Steps how life cycle of Java: Editor>Source code>Compiler>Byte code>JVM>Operating System

what is class?
A. class is a blue print or template for objects.

What is object?
Object is an instance of a class.

What is the entry point of an application?

Why main is static?
A. Static in the main method lets JVM run the method without creating any object of the class.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
A. java.lang.object;

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
A. The main difference between PATH and CLASSPATH is that  PATH is an environment
variable which is used to locate JDK binaries to run
java program and compile java source file. On the other hand, CLASSPATH, an environment variable is
used by System to locate and load compile Java bytecodes stored in the class file.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
A. Interface can only have abstract method but Abstract class can be both abstract and non abstract method.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
A. No. We can implement or extend them.

what is Access Specifier?
A. It specifies which classes can access a given class and its fields,
constructors and methods. Access modifiers can be specified separately for a class, its constructors, fields and methods.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
A.Object Oriented Programming.
Features: Abstraction(implementation hiding), Interface(roadmap for concrete class), Encapsulation(Data hiding), Polymorphism(Ablity of an object to take many form).

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A.package contains API in the java API library. Default package: java.lang.object;

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
A.Application Programming Interface. Set of prewritten codes found in JDK to make our code writing experience easier.
Some of the most common API I have used:
java.util.*;
java.lang.object;

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
A.No. Because multiple child class can relate to only one parent mehtod.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
A. Same class name with different parameter. It happens during compile time.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
A. Exception are events that occur during the execution of programs that disrupt the normal flow of instructions.
We use Try catch block or throw block to handle it.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
A. Static belongs to the class itself, and non static belong to the object.
Static can use only static variables and methods, nonstatic can access both static and non static variables.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
A. If value "final" is initialized, it cannot be changed.
Final in terms of variable cant be changed after declaration and initialization.
Declaring method final will not let the modify in sub class.

What is final, finally and finalize?
A. Finally is used after try catch block to cleanup. It will be executed regardless of exception handling or not
   Finalize is used to perform clean up processing when garbage collection determines
   that there are no more references to the object.
   Final is a keyword, finally is a block, finalize is a method

What is a constructor ?
A.Its a block of code similar to a method that is used to create instance of an object

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
A. Yes

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
A.default constructor

What is "this" keyword in java ?
A. this operator is a reference to the current object

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
A.Super is a keyword that refers to the super class. It can be used with variable, constructor, method.

What is JVM stand for ?
A. Java Virtual Machine.

Is JVM platform independent?
A. Yes.

What version of java are you using?
A.

What is JAR stand for ?
A. JAR stands for java archive.

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
A.Java Development Kit (JDK) is used for developing Java applications and includes the
  Java Runtime Environment (JRE), an interpreter/loader (java), the javac compiler, and thb JAR archivers.
  In the other hand, JVM is java virtual machine that executes bytecode at runtime.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
A. JVM  executes bytecode at runtime and in JRE.
JRE provides platform to execute java programs and its the implementation of JVM.

What is compile time and run time?
A.During compile time source code converted into byte code and Byte code is gets executed during Run time.

What is heap?
A.The heap is the area in memory where objects are stored.

How java manage it's memory?
A.java use stack and heap to manage its memory.
Stack memory store local variables and function and heap memory stores objects.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
A.

What is Singleton class?
A. In object-oriented programming, its a class that can have only one object at a time.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
A.Serialization is a process of converting an object into a sequence of bytes. Deserialization is just the
reverse process of creating object from sequence of bytes.

when to use transient variable in java?
A. If we dont want to serialize a variable, we use transient variable.

Difference between while and do..while loop?
A. While loop checks the condition first, if condition matches then perform the task
   Do while loop will perform the task first then match the condition

What is Enum?
A. A java enum is a special java type used to define collections of constants

What is Iterator?
A. An iterator is an Interface which is used to travese through a collection one by one.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
A. Integer will take more memory.

Why is String Immutable in Java?
A.String is immutable for several reasons, one of the reason is its security purpose.
Security parameters are typically represented as String in network connections, database connection urls,
usernames/passwords etc. If it were mutable, these parameters could be easily changed.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
A. We use the term constructor chaining when we call one constructor from another constructor.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
A. The serial collector uses a single thread to perform all garbage collection work and Parallel garbage collector uses
multithreaded environment.

What is JIT stands for?
A. Just in time compiler.

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
A. The heap is the area in memory where objects are stored. Garbage collection clears the heap of unused objects.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
A. No.

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
A.Whenever an object is created, it’s always stored in the Heap space and stack memory contains the reference to it.
Stack memory only contains local primitive variables and reference variables to objects in heap space.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
A. Its an API that can be used to examine and modify the behavior of objects, methods, class,
and interface during runtime.

what is multithreading in java?
A.Threads are light-weight processes within a process.
Multithreading allows two or more parts of a program to run at the same time for maximum utilization of CPU.
What is the use of synchronization in Java?
A.Synchronization is used when multiple threads are running at the same time, but only one thread is given access to
CPU at a time.

What is Framework?
A. Framework is a large body of pre-written code that can be used to add your code to solve problems in specific domain.

What are the testing Framework available in java?
A. TestNG, Junit.

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
A. TestNG has all the features of Junit plus some added features including
 dependency testing, group testing, suit testing.

What are the dependencies for this project?
A. jar files in the lib folder of this projects are the dependencies for this project.

what is dependency injection in java?
A. An injection is the passing of a dependency to a dependent object to a class that would use it.

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
A.The early binding (static binding) refers to compile time binding and late binding (dynamic binding) refers to runtime binding.








